Drum Pad (Resubmission) (#1474)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/drum_pad/README.md

Apart from building the drum pad, you will also be learning about different types of events, functions, styling, and more with Vanilla JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.

Final Code: [GitHub](https://github.com/emmanuel39hanks/beat_maker), Demo: [Live](https://drum.emmanuel39hanks.repl.co)

## Getting started

Let's start by setting up our coding environment using [repl.it](https://repl.it/), a free, online code editor.
To begin, navigate to [repl.it](https://repl.it/languages/html), and create a new repl.

You will see that there are already three files: index.html, style.css, and script.js. Navigate to your `index.html` file, and we will work on the structure of our drum pad there. 

## HTML:

We will write most of our HTML code inside the `body` tag. Let's start by creating a header that displays the text `DRUM PAD` using the `h1` tag:

```html
<h1>DRUM PAD</h1>
```

Just under the `h1` tag, we will have three rows and four columns of buttons. Each button will be created with a `div` tag. You can think of a `div` tag as a box or container, and we are using it because each of our buttons will have a boxy look.

```html
<!-- Parent div -->
<div>

> <!-- nested child divs -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <!-- nested child divs -->
```

  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
  <div>E</div>
  <div>F</div>
  <div>G</div>
  <div>H</div>
  <div>I</div>
  <div>J</div>
  <div>K</div>
  <div>L</div>
</div>
```

To quickly break this down. We have a parent `div` tag that nests our button `divs`, and then we label our buttons with letters to easily identify them, and like I mentioned above, each button will be given a boxy look, and that's why we are using `div` tags.

<details>  
<summary>Here's what your entire index.html file should look like so far:</summary>

```html

> <!DOCTYPE html>

Reviewer: this is different to what you get if you do this in repl.it

  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;

  /* To learn more about the overflow property, check out the hacking section */
  overflow: hidden;

  /* To learn more about the font-family property, check out the hacking section */
  font-family: sans-serif;
}
```

When we run our code, you will see that our content has been aligned to the center, and that's because we changed the properties of our `body` tag, and the tag basically renders the content on a web page.

![Preview of HTML with CSS applied, to change the layout](https://cloud-bp7m8g6di.vercel.app/0screencapture-drumpad-emmanuel39hanks-repl-co-2020-11-03-08_35_57.png)

We're going to be using classes to add styling to our `div` tags, a class name is an HTML attribute that points to a tag or a group of tags that have the same class name. Classes are used by CSS and JavaScript to select and access specific tags, the class attribute can be used on any HTML tag by adding the keyword `class=""` to it.

Let's navigate back to our `index.html`, We will give our parent `div` tag the class name `pad`, and all our nested `div` tags will get the class name `box` which will apply the styling that our classes have.

```html

> <div  class="pad">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="pad">
```

  <div class="box">B</div>
  <div class="box">C</div>
  <div class="box">D</div>
  <div class="box">E</div>
  <div class="box">F</div>
  <div class="box">G</div>
  <div class="box">H</div>
  <div class="box">I</div>
  <div class="box">J</div>
  <div class="box">K</div>
  <div class="box">L</div>
</div>
```

Now navigate to your `style.css`, and we will change our header's font size, color, and letter spacing using the following code:

```css
h1 {
  color: #000;

  /* To learn more about the font-size property, check out the hacking section */
  font-size: 5vw;

  /* To learn more about the letter-spacing property, check out the hacking section */
  letter-spacing: 6px; 
}
```

Then we create three rows and four columns to correctly align our header and buttons.

```css
.pad {
  width: 500px;
  display: flex;

  /* To learn more about the justify-content property, check out the hacking section */
  justify-content: space-between;
  
  /* To learn more about the flex-wrap property, check out the hacking section */
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}
```

We will write styling for our class name `.box`, to specify our buttons unique styling.

```css
.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;

>   margin: 10px  0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  margin: 10px 0;
```

  /* To learn more about the box-shadow property, check out the hacking section */

>   box-shadow: 0  8px  6px  -6px  black;

Reviewer: weird spacing

```css

.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  margin: 10px  0;

  
  /* To learn more about the box-shadow property, check out the hacking section */
  box-shadow: 0  8px  6px  -6px  black;
  background-color: #444;
  display: flex;

  justify-content: center;

  /* To learn more about the align-items property, check out the hacking section */
  align-items: center;
  font-size: 20px;

  
  /* To learn more about the rgba function, check out the hacking section */
  color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);

  /* To learn more about the user-select property, check out the hacking section */
  user-select: none;

  /* To learn more about the border-radius property, check out the hacking section */
  border: 4px solid;
}
```

If you run your code, nothing has changed. That's because we are using classes. We will solve this by using the HTML attribute `class=""` to add classes to our `div` tags.

Let's navigate back to our `index.html`, our parent `<div>` will be given the class name `pad` and our nested `<div>` tags, the class name `box` which will apply the code that we wrote in our CSS file.

> ```html

Reviewer: really weird spacing, remove the gaps

  /* To learn more about the border-radius property, check out the hacking section */
  border-radius: 15px;
}
```

We will then add code that adds hovering effects, inactive or active states to our pads:

```css
/* To learn more about the lighten function and :hover pseudo class, check out the hacking section */
.box:hover {
  background-color: lighten(#444, 10%);

  /* To learn more about the cursor property, check out the hacking section */
  cursor: pointer;
}

/* To learn more about the :active pseudo class, check out the hacking section */
.box:active {
  /* To learn more about the darken function, check out the hacking section */
  background-color: darken(#444, 10%);

  /* To learn more about the transform property, check out the hacking section */
  transform: scale(1.1);

  /* To learn more about the transition property, check out the hacking section */
  transition: all  0.2s;
}
```

Now that we have finished our styling, here's what your drum pad should look like:

![Preview of HTML with finished layout CSS applied, and our pad borders colored](https://cloud-ms6ubs6qu.vercel.app/0screencapture-drum-emmanuel39hanks-repl-co-2020-11-07-23_20_37.png)

## JavaScript:

> When you click on the buttons, we have no sound. We need to write our JavaScript code that will get us sound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click on the buttons, we have no sound. We need to write some JavaScript code that will play sounds.
```

Let's navigate to our the `index.html` file to link the JavaScript file. Then, inside the `<body>` tag at the bottom, we will link our `script.js` file with the following code:

```html
<script src="script.js"></script>
```

Now navigate to your `script.js` file and add the following code:

```javascript
function play(link) {
    let audio = new Audio(link);
    audio.load();
    audio.play();
}
```

> To explain what we did above, we created a function called `play()`, it receives a parameter, which is `link`. This is the link to the sound. We then create an audio object and pass `link` to the object. Now we can just load the audio with the `load()` function and play it with the `play()` function. A function is a block of code designed to perform a particular task, it is executed when "something" invokes it (calls it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we created a function called `play()`, it receives a parameter, which is `link`. This is the link to the sound. We then create an audio object and pass `link` to the object. Now we can just load the audio with the `load()` function and play it with the `play()` function. A function is a block of code designed to perform a particular task, it is executed when "something" invokes it (calls it).
```

All we need to do now is add an on click event to each of our nested `divs`, that gets triggered when a pad is clicked, then we call the `play()` function and pass the link to the sound file as our parameter.

> Let's navigate to our `index.html` file first, so we want the sound to play when each pad is click, we will need a way to call our `play()`. We will use an HTML attribute called `onclick=""`, learn more about the onclick event here: [onclick events](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/event_onclick.asp), it helps us call a function when an element with the attribute is clicked on, and inside the quotation marks, we pass the `play()` function and  also pass a link as the parameter to the function. And when a pad is clicked, it will get triggered and call the `play()` function and play the sound from the link we passed:

Reviewer: check grammar, this doesn't flow well

  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/RS.mp3')">D</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/OH25.mp3')">E</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/MA.mp3')">F</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CY0010.mp3')">G</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CH.mp3')">H</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CB.mp3')">I</div>
  <div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0010.mp3')">J</div>
  <div  class="box"  onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0000.mp3')">K</div>
  <div  class="box"  onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CP.mp3')">L</div>
</div>
```

If you run your code now, you should see a working drum pad!

![Image](https://media.giphy.com/media/11sBLVxNs7v6WA/giphy.gif)

## Hacking

> Now that you have finished building, you share your beautiful creation with other people! Remember, it's as easy as giving them your URL! Don't forget to share it with me on Slack @emmanuel39hanks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have finished building, you can share your beautiful creation with other people! Remember, it's as easy as giving them your URL! Don't forget to share it with me on Slack @emmanuel39hanks.
```

- [CSS transition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Transitions/Using_CSS_transitions)
- [CSS transform](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform)
- [CSS :hover pseudo class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:hover)
- [CSS :hover pseudo class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:active)
- [CSS cursor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/cursor)
- [CSS lighten & darken function](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/javascript/lighten-darken-color/)
- [CSS border](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border)
- [CSS border-radius](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius)
- [CSS rgba function](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/func_rgba.asp)
- [CSS user-select](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css3_pr_user-select.asp)
- [CSS box-shadow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-shadow)
- [CSS align-items](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-items)
- [CSS font-family](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font.asp)

Now it's up to you! Do anything with this project, go on and implement something crazy. 

> To finish, here are some branches that build upon this project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To finish, here are some examples of what can be built on top of this project:
```
